what is template engine?
package for generating dynamic html 
it has features to help us loop through data, conditionally render templates , and import data into a template

Why do we use template engine 
->easy for frontend developer
->Can isolate data 
->most populars are ==>twig by symphony
                    ==>blade by laravel

in this course we have created a template engine for our framework



Middleware
- A function that can run before or after a controller has been executed.
- in a nutshell, they are a feature for running functions before and after a controller handles a request
- at that moment, code inside a controller only get executed for specific request  
 
what is a contract?
- A contract is just another name for an interface
- because they for a class to have a specific implementation similar to how you must fulfil an agreement
- in this project we create interface contract for every middleware so all middleware have common methods 



what is singleton pattern?
- A design pattern for restricting  a class to a single instance 
- we must provide a way to sharing instances between different class.


What is http status code ?

it is three digit intigier to inform the browser the status of the request
1xx - information codes (request is still being request so connection doesnt end)
2xx - success
3xx - redirect user to different page
4xx - client error 
5xx - Server related error

Session 

At the moment we want to show errors after redirection of same page ,
it becomes unavailable after redirection ,  session can resolve the issue

php variables are stored temporarily after a page gets displayed in the browser
from php server

after a page get displayed the connection between the server and browser is closed 
once the conneciton is get closed, php starts destroying data created during the connection.
this allows for resources from the server to be free

as a result, those result can be allocated for other requests from other users 


for storing data session used 

sessions are a feature for storing data longer than a single request. They are destroyed. They are distroyed after a user closes a browser 



PHP extension?

PECL is shot form for PHP Extension Community Library.
WHy?
PHP has to two extention for communicating with databases.
MSQLi - made for mySql 
and 
PDO - compatible with more Databases (we will use it)


DSN - Data Source name

DSN format 
driver-> we must provide a driver -> database type ->mySql,mariaDB etc..
after that a color:
after that we need to provide configuration pair 



driver:key=value
example, mysql:host=localhost



what is prepared statement 

why ?
reason1.they are reusable becuase we are able to swap data at a moment's notice.
reason2.Databases can validate the values before executing query, thus preventing SQL injection


Transaction 
group of sql queries 
in most cases we are likely going to perform several queries on each request.
if the queries are depend on one another we are likely to run into issues 


if a single query fails within a transaction, we can revert changes applied by the previous queries


data modeling 
it is process of creating a diagram to act as a visual representation of our databases schema 
completely optional 
still crutial 


Environment variables ?
it's like global variable but the main difference is that Environment variables are available to the entire environment



hashing

We should never store passwords in plain text in database 
that's why  we should hash the passwrod 
Hashing is the process of transforming plain text into random text based on algorithm


hashing vs encryption

plain -> encryption -> encrypted text [the main difference is there is a key with using it that text can be converted to plain text]
plain ->hashing -> hashed text [it cant be reversed]


what is password salting ?

salting is the process of adding onto the original password with a custom string or integer.


bcrypt algorith 
it's recommended algorithm to use to store passwords in database
bcrypt is an algorithm that is slow

vid.245,246
Session Hijacking 
session hijacking is a technique where cookies containing the user's session ID is stolen by a hacker 
for securing 
1.encrypt data with SSL 
2. Disallowing scripts from accessing cookies on unsecure conneciton
3. XSS protection
4. Regenerate Session ID
what are cookies ?

Cookies are a strong feature for storing data on user's browser 


CSRF

Cross site request forgery 
it occurs when a request is submitted without user's consent
The idea work like this a hacker tricks the user into clicking the URL or submitting a form.
typically they mask the URL to be harmless when in reality a URL can reset an email after the user initiates the request, their mail would get reset to an email owned by hacker
Either way , the ultimate goal is to send a request to our site without user's permission or knowledge

Synchronizer token pattern 
A technique where the application produces a secret token embedded into page



what are query parameter ?
they are feature to storing data directly in a URL


 what are magic numbers ??

 They are special numbers holding a special meaning in our program 
 problem is ->meanings aren't clear of it 
 like PDO:ATTR_DEFAULT_FETCH_MODE = 19
 